



Network Working Group                                        S. Krishnan
Internet-Draft                                                  C. Eckel
Obsoletes: 3113 (if approved)                                      Cisco
Intended status: Informational                                P. Schmitt
Expires: 6 January 2027                                           Huawei
                                                             5 July 2026


                3GPP-IETF Standardization Collaboration
                      draft-kes-rfc3113bis-latest

Abstract

   The objective of the collaboration between 3GPP and IETF is securing
   timely development of technical specifications, and to facilitate
   maximum interoperability with existing fixed and mobile Internet
   systems, devices, and protocols.  This document summarizes some high-
   level principles of cooperation and the coordination between both
   organizations while leaving out the detailed descriptions to be
   specified and maintained by the coordination function itself.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-kes-rfc3113bis/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Internet Architecture
   Board Internet Engineering Task Force mailing list
   (mailto:iab@iab.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/iab/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/iab/.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 6 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  IETF liaison coordination with 3GPP
   3.  3GPP liaison coordination with IETF
   4.  General high-level coordination principles
   5.  Changes from RFC3113
   6.  Security Considerations
   7.  IANA Considerations
   8.  References
     8.1.  Normative References
     8.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   The IETF and 3GPP formalized a set of principles and guidelines for
   cooperation in [RFC3113].  While the high level principles remain
   intact in the collaboration, many of the details in that document
   have become out of date due to changes in the organizational
   structures of both, IETF and 3GPP, as well as in the way the
   coordination activities are conducted in practice.  E.g. both the
   IETF and 3GPP have reorganized and renamed areas so that the RFC3113
   contains incorrect and misleading information.  The document access
   mechanisms have also been changed even as the open access principles
   still remain intact.  It is also difficult to keep this information
   up to date due to the fairly dynamic nature of both of the SDOs.
   This document intends to reiterate the high level principles of
   cooperation and the coordination mechanisms while leaving out the
   detailed descriptions to be specified and maintained by the
   coordination function itself.

2.  IETF liaison coordination with 3GPP

   As stated in [RFC2850], the IAB acts as representative of the
   interests of the IETF in technical liaison relationships with other
   organizations concerned with standards.  As such the IAB is the main
   contact point for liaison management with other SDOs.

   Based on the publication of RFC3113, the IAB established a formal
   Liaison relationship with 3GPP, which is still active up to the time
   of publication of this document, and appointed a liaison manager as a
   premier contact point for any liaison coordination between IETF and
   3GPP.

   In addition, the IAB has the ability to host meetings or groups that
   supports a liaison relationship or process.  At the time of
   publication of this document, the IAB maintains a group that is led
   jointly by the respective liaison managers from both organizations,
   IETF and 3GPP.  All current groups are listed at [IAB-ADMIN]:

3.  3GPP liaison coordination with IETF

   3GPP specifications have widely adopted Internet specifications and,
   as stated originally in RFC3113, the preferred approach is to use the
   Internet standards unchanged, if feasible.  As further originally
   stated in RFC3113, 3GPP has no intention to duplicate work performed
   in IETF.

   While this is the preferred scenario, 3GPP recognizes in RFC3113 that
   additions or modifications might be needed in order to make the IETF
   internet specification fulfill the needs of 3GPP, and that in such
   cases, 3GPP will take its concerns directly to the appropriate IETF
   working groups for resolution, or to an appropriate Area Director if
   no appropriate working group can be found.

4.  General high-level coordination principles

   This document also reiterates the principle, as confirmed by both
   organizations, that informal communication at working level is
   encouraged whenever possible.

   When deemed necessary, formal communication between 3GPP and IETF is
   also permitted.  Relevant IETF Area Directors and 3GPP technical
   leadership are encouraged and authorized to facilitate such
   communications when needed with the support of the liaison managers
   of both organizations.

5.  Changes from RFC3113

   *  Details about Document sharing removed

   *  Details about communication removed

   *  Details about rapporteurs removed

6.  Security Considerations

   This document is concerned with the relationship between 3GPP and
   IETF and does not bring up any new security considerations.

7.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

8.  References

8.1.  Normative References

   [RFC3113]  Rosenbrock, K., Sanmugam, R., Bradner, S., and J. Klensin,
              "3GPP-IETF Standardization Collaboration", RFC 3113,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC3113, June 2001,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc3113>.

8.2.  Informative References

   [IAB-ADMIN]
              IAB, "Administrative Support Groups", July 2026,
              <https://www.iab.org/programs/administrative-support-
              groups/>.

   [RFC2850]  IAB and B. Carpenter, Ed., "Charter of the Internet
              Architecture Board (IAB)", BCP 39, RFC 2850,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2850, May 2000,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2850>.

Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to thank Mirja Kuehlewind and Lionel Morand
   for their valuable comments and suggestions to improve this document.

Authors' Addresses

   Suresh Krishnan
   Cisco
   Email: suresh.krishnan@gmail.com


   Charles Eckel
   Cisco
   Email: eckelcu@cisco.com


   Peter Schmitt
   Huawei
   Email: Peter.Schmitt@huawei.com
